>> We have all heard of
the myths and the legends
of our history.
But is there another story?
>> I was educated as a strict
Catholic and I was educated
in the boarding school for
six years led by Jesuits.
I knew the Bible.
We translated parts of the
Bible from Greek to Latin
and from Latin to German.
So I really know what
I'm talking about.
And while making these
translations as a boy,
I realized that the God of the
Bible cannot be a real God.
I mean, something
which is a real God
is a question of definition.
God for me has to
have some qualities.
For example, God
makes no mistakes.
God would not need a vehicle in
which to move around from point
A to point B. God is all over.
Of course, God
makes no mistakes.
He knows what he's
talking about.
Now, in the Bible,
we found a god.
He made some mistakes,
he made some errors.
He even admitted errors, etc.
He uses a vehicle
to move from point A
to point B. The result
was I had simply
doubts in my own
Christian education
and I wanted to know if other
communities in antiquity
have similar stories
than we have.
That's why it all started
with "Chariots of the Gods."
Now, in beginning of the Bible,
the second book of Moses,
the Lord before he descends
from Heaven to Earth,
he gives an order to Moses.
Moses should create a gate
around the holy mountain
so that the people
would not camp close by.
Otherwise, the people
would be destroyed.
So Moses constructs a
gate around the mountain.
The Israelites at
a safe distance.
And then the Lord
descends with smoke, fire,
crumbling loud noise.
In the Bible it says, and the
mountain looked like an oven,
like fire.
So my God is a spiritual being.
My God does not need
a vehicle in which
to move around, come down,
smoke, fire, loud noise,
crumbling, etc.
So that's why in the Bible,
we find many descriptions
about extraterrestrials.
We simply translated it wrong.
Some unknown thousands
of years ago,
a group of extraterrestrials
arrived here
and that was not coincidence.
Because again, long before--
millions of years ago--
they created life simply by
infecting a certain region
of their Milky Way with DNA.
They knew exactly
that only on planets
which are similar than the
one that came from life
would be evolved.
So they knew in advance that
they would come to Earth
and they will find
forms of life.
And one of these forms
of life was our ancestor,
let's call him in a
nonscientific way an ape.
They simply took one example
of it, took one simple cell
and changed the DNA in the cell.
This cell grows,
multiplies, and then they
put it into the womb of a
female of the same species.
This female after a
certain amount of months
will give birth to a child.
The child has definitely the
evolution of the parents.
I mean the skeleton, the bones,
the mouth, the whole thing.
But because of this
artificial mutation,
the child now grows
out of evolution.
All our family
members still today--
the apes, the
chimpanzees, the gorillas,
whatever-- they are all
the same family tree.
They are still stupid.
If they learn something,
they learn it from us.
The chimpanzees who can't
speak, we tell them so.
But they're still stupid.
Only one species,
Homo sapiens sapiens,
out of the same family tree
has become intelligent,
learned a language because
of an artificial mutation
made from the same family tree.
Now, as soon as you want
to have a new population,
you need at least
two, female and male.
And then you end in the
story of Adam and Eve.
And the gods created humans
according to their own image.
We are the offsprings of them.
That's why they
understand us today.
They could have destroyed
us and killed us
throughout thousands
of years anytime,
but they were never doing it.
We belong to the same family.
So Adam and Eve were a creation
by an artificial mutation
made out of the family tree
of our primitive ancestor.
This does not contradict
evolution, by the way.
Of course we have evolution
until the chimpanzee,
and they still exist.
But because of the artificial
mutation, Adam and Eve,
we are the Homo sapiens sapiens.
Before the gods, the so-called
gods, left our planet--
in the Bible, the Paradise--
they told them, you
humans, you can do
everything, whatever you like.
Rule over the planet, rule over
the plants and over the trees,
rule about everything
except one thing
you are never allowed to do,
have sex with your own family.
But the ones which are not
mutated, because only two--
Adam and Eve-- and
their sons and daughters
later, they can cross together.
Soon as one of them would
have a sexual intercourse
with their own family,
apes, the figure
of the chromosomes at that
time are still the same.
They would create some monster.
In the Bible, they
say some giants.
That was the reason
for the great flood,
according not only to the Bible,
according to the Book of Enoch.
They clearly say to
Enoch, we will bring now
a flood to destroy all these
giants and mixed creatures
which exist in the meantime
on the planet Earth.
So according to this, the
flood was not a coincidence.
The gods created it.
Imagine a normal ship on
the ocean 200 years ago.
So they are maybe for
weeks on board the ship.
Now they come to an island
with beautiful girls.
What do they do?
They have sex.
The same thing happened
with the extraterrestrials.
They were for maybe hundreds
of years in their spaceships.
They were working in this
big space, the astronauts.
Now they come to
the planet Earth.
And as the Bible says, they
saw that the daughters of man
were beauty so they
took them to wife.
By the way, in sort of
the Bible translation,
they say the fallen angels
saw that the daughters of man
were beauty and they
took them to wife.
What is a fallen angel?
They who descended.
And not only in the Bible.
You find this absolutely clear
again in the Book of Enoch.
They clearly say the
guardians of the sky,
they had a mutiny on board.
Some of them wanted to have
sex with beautiful humans.
They wanted to have
sexual contact with them,
but it was forbidden to do so.
That's written in
the Book of Enoch.
So they make a mutiny.
Enoch gives even
the names of 36 of
these extraterrestrial
figures which
say, we want to go down
there, we want to have sex,
we want to do this even if
it's against what the lord--
the lord is the commander
of the spaceship-- says.
And they had sex and the result
was some different creatures
and giants and all these things.
In the story of Moses, together
with his brother, Aaron,
goes to the holy mountain.
And the Lord gives him precise
measurements for the arch.
He says, you must construct
this object so long, so large,
so high, etc.
You must use this sort of metal.
And then he even says to
Moses, and make it exactly
like the original you see here.
So there was an original and
Moses made the first copy.
Later, Moses came back from
the holy mountain to his people
and the people were hungry and
they could find nothing to eat.
Now, in the Bible, it says
that the Ark of the Covenant
was connected together
with the strange beings--
maybe machinery-- which is
called the oldest of the day.
This you do not
find in the Bible.
You find it in the Kabbalah.
And then these orders of
the day produced manna.
That means the machine, it was
a machine that produced manna.
Manna was just a
ground nourishing.
With manna you mixed
all kinds of things.
That need energy.
The energy comes from
the Ark of the Covenant.
You see, the Ark
of the Covenant was
an absolute dangerous object
and the Ark of the Covenant
definitely had radioactivity.
In the second book of the
Kings, the Ark of the Covenant
is transported and one
of the priests, his name
is Oza, he simply
because there was
a moment where the
ark looked as if she
would fall from the wagon.
One of the priests, his name
was Oza, he touched the ark
and at the same second he died
like from an electricity power.
And in the book
of Samuel, it says
everyone who came too close to
the Ark of the Covenant died.
And they describe how they died.
Their skin became pale; their
nails, and fingers, and feet
fell out; they were blind; etc.
So they were afraid of
the Ark of the Covenant
and by free will, they
brought it back to Israel.
The Israelites the
next morning saw
that the Ark of the Covenant
was here again with four horses.
The horses were
already near dead.
The children of
Israel were dancing
around the Ark of the
Covenant, praying to the Lord
that the Ark of the
Covenant is back finally
from the land of the enemy.
And at that morning,
so says the Bible,
72 of the Israelites
died, including children.
What have these
children done wrong?
The only thing, they
were too close to the Ark
of the Covenant because
the Ark of the Covenant
was absolutely dangerous.
Aaron was the priest,
the brother of Moses,
and Aaron was the one who
created a new priesthood.
Only those ones
are allowed to go
close to the Ark
of the Covenant.
They had to wear separate
suits, seven times woven,
separate clothes.
The Ark of the
Covenant was dangerous
because it was in reality
a plutonium reactor.
Plutonium reactors are used
today in our satellites.
If you need a satellite who
needs power for 20 or 40 years,
you need a miniature
plutonium reactor.
Plutonium reactors are
never used on Earth
because they are
incredibly dangerous.
Plutonium is really dangerous.
Just a little piece
of powder of plutonium
can kill thousands of people.
It's a very, very
high radioactivity.
That's why we use it
only in satellites.
And they never tell it to the
humans that in these satellite,
the energy came from
plutonium reactors.
So finally, the
Ark of the Covenant
was back with the Israelites.
72 of them died.
They continued their
trip and Solomon
created the first temple.
Solomon put the
Ark of the Covenant
in a temple in the holy place.
Then Solomon-- by the way,
he had some flying machines--
Solomon could fly all the time.
These flying machines of Solomon
is not part of the Bible,
it's part of the
so-called Kebra Nagast.
The Kebra Nagast is the book
of the kings of Ethiopia.
There you read about the flying
machines of King Solomon.
They even say how fast it was.
So in one day, he made
the distance of 30 days
if you were going on the ground.
Anyhow, Solomon created a
temple and had a separate room
for the Ark of the Covenant.
Now, Solomon,
because he can fly,
he had a girlfriend, the Queen
of Sheba, in today's Ethiopia.
He visited her at
different times
and they had a boy together.
He went to visit
his father, Solomon.
So he came from two days
Ethiopia with a caravan,
with many camels, and
came to Jerusalem.
And in Jerusalem, [INAUDIBLE]
said to his father,
Solomon, my mother, the Queen
of Sheba, which you love
[INAUDIBLE],, has some
problems for enemy
and she asked me to
come to Jerusalem
that I should bring
the Ark of the Covenant
to Ethiopia to the
Queen of Sheba.
Because the people who have
the Ark of the Covenant,
they always have
power, she said.
Now, Solomon said to his
son, this is impossible.
My own people, my
priests, would kill me
if I would allow you to take
the Ark of the Covenant out
of the Temple of Jerusalem.
But the boy was finally
the son of Solomon,
he was a priest himself.
So at night, he went with a
few followers into the temple,
into the room where the Ark
of the Covenant was standing.
He made an exact copy of it.
They went out again, and
outside the walls of Jerusalem
his artists created a copy
of the Ark of the Covenant.
At night, they made the
priest of Solomon drunken.
They went into the
temple, they stole
the real original
Ark of the Covenant,
and they put the copy there.
The next morning, the priest
didn't even realize it.
It took two or three
days before they realized
that not the original is anymore
in the Temple of Jerusalem,
it is a copy.
Now, Solomon, he knew
exactly it was my son.
And he went with his
horses to follow,
but he could never reach
him because [INAUDIBLE]
with the Ark of
the Covenant again
was flying in one
of these flying
machines to today's Ethiopia.
So the original of the
Ark of the Covenant
arrived, in fact, in
two days in Ethiopia.
The Queen of Sheba, she
was very, very happy.
Thousands of people surrounded
the Ark of the Covenant
and thousands of people died,
again with the same sickness
as we had before in the
second book of the Kings.
Now, the Queen of Sheba
was afraid of the Ark
of the Covenant.
She realized that this
object is dangerous.
She put it down in a hole in
the ground, and exactly there
today in the Ethiopian
city of Axum,
the cathedral of the Holy
Virgin Mary is standing.
Now, this is Coptic
Christianity in Ethiopia
and a few years ago, the
head of the Coptic Church
was in Switzerland
shortly and in Germany.
And one journalist
asked him, do you
know about the Ark
of the Covenant?
Is it true that it is in
Ethiopia under the Church
of the Holy Virgin Mary?
And the chief said, yes.
I was one of them who saw
the Ark of the Covenant.
This object is not
from this planet.
This object is from
another planet.
So sometimes I am
asked by the critics
where are the proofs
for extraterrestrials?
The Ark of the Covenant,
even if only a piece of it
has survived, would
be final proof.
But that's a
question of religion.
The religions would
never allow us
to go down there to
make scientific research
on this object.
So the time is not right for it.
We have change, again,
this period of time.
You see, my God--
in my opinion, in my dreams--
does not need a vehicle
in which to move around.
God is omnipresent.
God is like a spirit,
he's always there.
Now, in the Bible,
the prophet Ezekiel
describes a strange story.
He says, when I was
captured among the captives
at the river of Chebar.
You have to understand
at that time,
Jerusalem was overtaken
by the Babylonians.
The Babylonians
ruled over Jerusalem
and the high
society of Jerusalem
went as captured as
slaves to Babylonia.
There they had to work
for the Babylonians.
Ezekiel by profession was a
high priest of the temple,
so he was among
the high society.
He had to work there.
Now, when these
slaves are working
and Ezekiel writes all
this in the first person,
that means the I form--
I did, I saw, I realized --
not a story in the
third person, I saw.
Ezekiel writes that
all of a sudden,
they hear a noise in the sky.
All the slaves looked up there.
Then he sees an object
coming down from the sky.
Then he realizes the object
makes a tremendous noise.
He compares the noise with
the thundering of a waterfall
or he compares it
with fighting wagons.
So a terrible noise [INAUDIBLE].
All the slaves looking there,
the objects comes down,
sand is blown up.
Ezekiel is high
priest by profession,
so he believes in the
beginning it must be God.
He falls on his nose
to pray to the Lord.
And then he realized
this is not God.
And then he describes
exactly what he sees.
He describes no
longer the noise.
He describes the wings.
The wings move.
When the wings move,
there's a tremendous noise
starting to be there again.
When the wings stood still,
they were hanging down.
He describes the legs.
He clearly says the
legs were out of metal.
Then he cries the wheel.
And the wheel
shocked him totally
because the wheel of his times
can go forward and backward.
But the wheel
which he sees here,
they go also forward
and backward,
but at the same time left and
right without making a steering
movement.
You see, when you are
sitting in your car today
and you want to make a
curve, you make on your wheel
a curve, a steering movement,
and the wheels are turning now
that you come in your curve.
Ezekiel sees a wheel which
goes forward, backward, right,
and left without making
a steering movement.
This shocks him so he
can't understand it.
He describes it four times.
Some 30 years ago, I
had a secret speech
at the headquarters
of NASA in Huntsville,
in the United States--
secret.
Why secret?
Because both parties
agreed not to go to public.
I did not say a word at that
time and the other part not.
And in this speech, I also
talked for about five minutes
about Ezekiel.
And after the speech,
we had dinner together
and the chief of the
Department of Construction,
and ex-German-- his name
was Joseph Blumrich--
who came to me and said,
that was very interesting.
But Mr. von Daniken,
in the Bible
you will never find technology.
The Bible, this is imagination.
These are dreamings, these are
visions but not technology.
Anyhow, he said, I
was the first one
who brought him up to Ezekiel.
He never read Ezekiel before.
Now he will do it.
He started to read
Ezekiel and finally he
realized that whatever
Ezekiel described is real.
They have it on their
design desk today.
And he started to reconstruct
Ezekiel's description.
The outcome was a book
with the English title,
"The Spaceships of Ezekiel."
And in the foreword of
it, Mr. Joe Blumrich,
the ex-chief of the Construction
Department at NASA said,
I absolutely started this
work to disprove Erich von
Däniken's story of Ezekiel.
But it was absolutely
sensational what comes out.
Ezekiel did see an
extraterrestrial spacecraft.
Now, Ezekiel's spaceship
is not a mother spaceship
with which you can move
from star to start.
Ezekiel's spaceship is only
an object which today we
would call space shuttle.
You have to have
a mother spaceship
and from the mother
spaceship a smaller vehicle
comes down to the Earth.
So that's what it was.
Now, Ezekiel describes--
I think it's after
chapter 40 or so--
that the splendidness of God--
yes, by the way, this
is very important.
I knew the original Ezekiel.
I read it first in Hebrew.
I did not learn
specially Hebrew,
but we had the
Latin translation.
And in the original Ezekiel,
the word God never appears--
never.
Ezekiel says it was the
splendidness of the highest.
The word God in the
Bible only comes in later
by the translators.
The translator thinks by the
splendidness of the highest,
he means God.
In the original the word
God is never mentioned.
So in theology, they say,
well, Ezekiel had a vision.
He saw God sitting on
his flying chariot.
As I said before, for me God
does not need a flying chariot.
Now, anyhow, he continues
in the book of Ezekiel
and says that the
splendidness of the highest
arrived a second time and this
time, the hand of the highest
put him on the throne.
In my view, he was sitting
in the co-pilot's chair.
And then he describes
how they started.
He says, and the hand of the
highest pressed upon my chest
because he feels the
gravity when starting.
He does not know where the
trip goes because he says,
they brought me on a
very, very high mountain.
He clearly says very, very--
not just very high mountains,
but very, very high mountain.
He doesn't know where he is.
He looks down and he
sees under him something
like a city, a small
city or a big village
and in the center of it,
something like a temple.
Now, the word temple,
again, we have to analyze.
What was a temple
for our forefathers?
A temple was a place where
the gods were living.
Later, we made temples,
churches in believing
that now God will
come into there
in the original [INAUDIBLE].
So he saw something
like a temple
in this big village
or small city.
He's sitting himself in
the splendidness of the God
in the co-pilot's seat.
The splendidness of the
Lord comes to a standstill
over the temple.
Slowly, slowly he sinks
inside the so-called temple
and Ezekiel realizes
at that moment
that the noise of the wings
was this time higher and louder
than what he had heard
before in the desert
because now the echo
comes back from the walls
of the so-called temple.
Then it comes to a standstill.
Ezekiel goes out, gets
out of the space shuttle,
and of a sudden, a
glittering beam being again,
one of the strangers.
And he says to Ezekiel,
oh humans, you humans--
you have eyes to see,
but you see nothing
and you have ears to hear,
but you hear nothing.
And then the man in
the glittering suit
gives Ezekiel a measuring
device in order for him
to measure this whole
building, the so-called temple.
Ezekiel in the
meantime, he understands
that this has nothing to do
with God so he has courage.
He asks back to the
glittering man, why?
Why should I
measure this temple?
And the other one says, that's
the reason why we brought you
here, humans.
So Ezekiel starts to measure
length and width and how many
stairs, etc.
All this you can read in the
Bible, all the measurements
of the so-called temple.
Now, in Germany we had a
German engineer whose name
is Hans Herbert Beier and
he read these measurements
and he asked himself, is this
a true [INAUDIBLE] building
or is he just
imagination or fantasy?
Because the theologians
say this temple,
this building is a future
temple in a future Jerusalem.
But the German engineer wanted
to know, is this a real object?
And he started to
calculate exactly
according to
Ezekiel's measurement
and outcomes a building which
looks today like a stadium,
like a football stadium.
And then this German
engineer came to me
and I saw his calculations
absolutely precise.
I asked him, have you ever
heard of NASA, of Mr. Blumrich's
reconstruction?
Because NASA, it only
reconstructed the splendidness
of the highest, which
means the shuttle,
while the German engineer
was only reconstructing
the so-called temple.
So one had the splendidness
of the highest and the temple.
So I brought the two men
together, the German engineer
and the NASA engineer.
And the space shuttle fit
perfectly into the temple
by every centimeter.
The so-called temple
was nothing else
but the base station for the
extraterrestrial shuttle.
They had to come to [INAUDIBLE],,
they had to repair it,
they had to do something.
And we have definite
proof of all this.
And here, at least
for me, something
is very, very important.
You see, when you read the
Bible just as a normal people,
you read and the temple
will be so and so long,
the temple will be so and so
large, will be so and so high,
etc.
Will be means future.
But the original Ezekiel has
nothing written in the future.
I know the original, I
translated it myself.
In the original, he says the
building is so and so long,
is so and so large, etc.
How can this future, this form
in grammatic of the future?
The theologians
believe that Ezekiel
had a vision of the almighty
God and the Lord now
shows him a future temple
in the future Jerusalem.
Now, the Semitic language,
the original Semitic language,
has no vowels--
has no A, E, I, O, U.
It has only consonants
and you simply put
these vowels in it.
Now, because they
believe that Ezekiel
is talking about a future temple
in the future of Jerusalem,
they have translated Ezekiel
in the form of the future--
the temple will be so and so
long, will be so and so large.
In reality, it's all present.
That temple is so
and so, is so and so.
The temple was nothing
other than the landing base
for the extraterrestrial
shuttle.
Imagine there is a
group of humans working
as slaves for the
Babylonians on a river
with the name of Chebar.
A group of extraterrestrials
is watching them,
learning their language.
The group of
extraterrestrials came down.
They know in the
meantime which human
is the leader of this group.
He was Ezekiel.
By profession, he was a
high priest in the temple.
They took him and brought
him on a very high mountain
in a far off country, very
high mountain far away.
They give him the order
to measure the building
and then they bring him
back to his own people.
Now, his people will ask, hey,
Ezekiel, you are back again?
Wonderful.
We were afraid for you.
What have they done to you?
Have you been hungry, thirsty?
And Ezekiel is very, very happy.
He describes his
first flight and he
describes that he had
to measure a building.
He said, here are the
measuring dates, here.
Why should extraterrestrials
do things like this?
They knew exactly
Ezekiel and his society
believed that it has to do
with the real almighty God.
And because Ezekiel
had the chance
to be taken away by
the real almighty God,
such a description will
not just be thrown away.
Such a description becomes holy.
Such a description will enter
into the holy books of mankind.
The extraterrestrials know
that of course, humans
will have wars
throughout the history,
they will fight
against each other.
But the holy texts will remain
because they are translated
in many, many languages.
They knew this.
They knew again
in the far future,
the human race will have the
capability to fly themselves.
They will read this
old text of Ezekiel
and they will say, come on, this
is not God; this is technology.
And again, we have
the temple, we
can reconstruct these things
because of the measuring
dates of Ezekiel.
They will come to
the one conclusion
which I said here,
it was not God;
it was simply a space shuttle
of the extraterrestrials.
All we have to do now or
our science has to do now
is find the temple
where Ezekiel was.
He was on a very,
very high mountain.
And I have a possibility
of such a temple.
In South America in Peru,
3,800 meters in the Andes
is a temple which archeology
does not understand.
The temple is called
Chavin de Huantar.
Chavin de Huantar has
no starting point.
It was promptly here.
We have no idea of the
culture of Chavin de Huantar
because every culture
has a development.
A culture is not just
here, it starts slowly,
but the temple of
Chavin de Huantar
does not fit into the
development of a culture.
Also on the walls of the
Temple of Chavin de Huantar,
you find strange heads who
look absolutely strange.
Some of them have helmets on.
And then you find some
engravings of winged beings.
In archeology they call them
winged genius, winged beings
done so precisely.
Ezekiel describes when he was
brought up this very, very
high mountain, he said they came
down to the so-called temple.
The temple was
nothing but the base
camp of the extraterrestrials.
And he saw on the wall, I
saw some hats and figures,
and some winged
creatures on the wall.
And in Chavin de Huantar, we
find these winged creatures.
And archeology does not know
who started Chavin de Huantal,
simply not because it was the
extraterrestrials in that case.
They needed on
Earth a base camp.
You see, when our scientists
or our mountain climbers,
they go to the Himalayas, you
don't make it in just one line.
You need base
camps, stop by stop.
So the extraterrestrials needed
something like this, too.
And one of these base
camps was Chavin de Huantar
and Ezekiel was brought up
there and he writes about it.
Today we find the temple.
We see these winged
creatures, etc.
It all makes perfect sense.
I'm Erich von Däniken.
Join me next time on
Beyond the Legend.